CePO: Cerebras Planning & Optimization​
Improving Llama’s reasoning abilities with test-time compute

Documentation Index
Fetch the complete documentation index at: https://inference-docs.cerebras.ai/llms.txt

Use this file to discover all available pages before exploring further.

To get started with a free API key, click here.
CePO (Cerebras Planning & Optimization) is a framework that adds advanced reasoning capabilities to the Llama family of models by utilizing test-time compute. This approach enables Llama to address complex reasoning tasks that can be difficult for standard one-shot or instruct models.
CePO is implemented using Cerebras inference, which currently supports llama3.1-8b at 2,200 reasoning tokens/s. This level of inference speed enables efficient test-time computation for more sophisticated reasoning tasks.
​
How CePO Works
CePO demonstrates how additional test-time computation can improve Llama’s reasoning.

The process involves four main stages:
Planning: The LLM produces a plan to solve a given problem step by step.
Execution: The LLM executes the plan multiple times, generating multiple responses.
Analysis: The model analyzes the responses to detect inconsistencies across executions, helping catch and correct mistakes.
Best-of-N: Responses are evaluated within a Best-of-N framework that includes a structured confidence scoring mechanism.
​
Getting Started with CePO
1
Step 1: Prerequisites

CePO is built on the popular, open-source OptiLLM library. To get started, install OptiLLM and make sure you have the latest version of the Cerebras Inference SDK installed.
pip install --upgrade cerebras_cloud_sdk 
pip install --upgrade optillm
Next, configure your API key, which can be found in our developer platform.
export CEREBRAS_API_KEY='your_api_key_here'
2
Step 2: Run OptiLLM with CePO

Finally, run the OptiLLM script with CePO
optillm \
  --base-url https://api.cerebras.ai \
  --approach cepo 
If you would like to print intermediate states in the OptiLLM log, you can optionally add:
--cepo_p